well hospitals in Gaza are being
overwhelmed by patients and are
desperately low on supplies in the
largest one doctors are warning that its
generators could fail at any time
Russell sder has
more these babies are struggling to
survive dozens of them are being treated
in this Intensive Care Unit in gaza's
alifa
hospital but it's close to
collapse if the electricity is out in
these departments where are 55 babies we
will lose all those who need electricity
within 5
minutes Israel is imposing a Complete
Siege on Gaza and cutting off
life-saving supplies and services
electricity is one of them alifa
hospital is now running on generators
but doctors warn they could fail any
moment shortages of medicines and the
threat of the power cuts are putting the
medical team Under
Pressure we have ventilators but now
seven ventilators are not working
because we don't have the right cables
to operate them we are only operating
with 10 ventilators which is a strong
sign that the failure of this department
is
looming some members of bulb's Team have
been forced to work in other hospitals
in southern areas of Gaza because of
Israeli strikes and blocked
roads alifa hospital is being
overwhelmed by a high number of patients
and thousands of people seeking shelter
from his Israeli attacks Israel has
bombed medical facilities several times
in the past 2 weeks and those seeking
Refuge here say nowhere in Gaza is safe
RAR Al
jazer well we can now speak to Steven
Ryan he's a spokesman for the
international Committee of the Red Cross
or icrc he joins us now from occupied
East Jerusalem Stephen just starting now
with Aid we are hearing that there will
be a sustained flow that's been agreed
what does that mean in practice
well certainly the icrc has been calling
for a sustained flow of humanitarian
assistance into Gaza throughout this
conflict what's needed right now is to
make sure that that actually happens we
have teams on standby as well as relief
ready to go in and these are desperately
needed items including uh medical
supplies that you heard on your report
just a moment ago are very much in need
in addition uh we have uh our teams in
Gaza have visited some of the hospitals
that you've mentioned in in your report
and they've seen firstand how difficult
and challenging the situation is there
not only for the medical staff who are
doing their absolute best to continue to
provide medical care to thousands of
people but also for the thousands of
people that have found refuge in places
such as hospitals of course and from the
point of view of the ICC our teams are
ready to respond we just need greater
access and a continued flow of much
needed emergency relief
sure by my count we've had 54 trucks
enter the Gaza Strip so far that's
obviously a tiny tiny proportion of
what's needed how quickly can this be
scaled up and is that realistic given
the infrastructure damage that we've
seen well certainly the damage to
infrastructure is going to be a major
concern because it's not just a question
of goods crossing a border crossing into
Gaza it's also getting them to where
they're needed most the icrc's position
is always to focus on providing AR
assistance to people who are not part of
the fight to civilians and this is
our sorry goad sorry I just wanted to
jump in there because as you alluded to
a lot more can be done to try to deal
with the humanitarian situation Aid
Crossings for instance could be opened
to the Israeli side that's I Believe
been done before Israel could also turn
the water and the electricity back on do
you have any sense if that's a
possibility at all are Israel's
International backers for instance
pushing for
that well certainly our view is that any
Avenue that's op to the Ico any way that
we can provide assistance this is
something that we're keen to see but it
is to the parties to the conflict to
agree on how uh they agree to agree on
how assistance is going to access Gaza
our goal is always going to be focused
on getting to provide this relief
assistance to people who need it most in
Gaza as we do everywhere in the sure um
Stephen Hamas in the last day or has
said that it's offered two more captives
to be returned on humanitarian grounds
which makes it sound like time is of the
essence Israel has said that that that
offer was just propaganda ICC
facilitated the return of of the two
Americans do you have any information
about the two other captives now being
offered well as you can imagine the the
issue related to hostages is something
that's sensitive for all involved the
role of the icrc is to act as a neutral
intermediary between the parties sure in
addition we called throughout for the
release of all hostages as well as
access to see them and this is something
that I think uh the ICC will continue to
do many of these hostals have medical
needs that we are uh we are Keen to be
able to meet but the the negotiations
about the release of these hostages is
something between the respective parties
our role and it's an important role that
only the International Community of the
Red Cross can play is to stand a neutral
intermedi and that's the the character
of what ICC stands for of course Stephen
let me ask you about the condition then
of those being held captive you've
you've asked for access to them can I
ask how those requests have been
received are you receiving any any
indication if you may be given access in
future well certainly these discussions
are ones that are held with the parties
to the conflict uh confidentially we do
this in order to try to achieve the best
possible results sure both for the
people that have been detained or as
hostes and for their families certainly
our view is that the people that are
taken as hostage should have their
medical and humanitarian needs met and
they should be able to contact their
families we have called repeatedly to
have access to these people that have
been held hostage and we will continue
to do so Steven Ryan there a spokesman
for the international Committee of the
Red Cross or ICC thank you so much for
spending this time with us here on alaz
stepen and we really wish you all the
best you and your teams the best with
your
work